Like most people these days, I'm looking for ways to make my computing
environment more efficient.  This environment consists of a 486, a 386,
and a 386SL laptop, all of which run Taylor uucp under Linux.  The 386
laptop gets used a lot, since it goes wherever I go and I answer a lot
of news and email every day.  Often, I must use other people's facilities
(phone lines and such) to send out replies and post news if I'm not at home.
Since it's not fair to the client for them to pay for my zone calls back
to my home in Fremont, I place the calls on my phone card.  Unfortunately,
PacBell is very proud of the services they offer, especially in regards
to this convenience of automatically charging calls to my house wherever I
may be.  Considering that this can be very expensive to do, I searched for
a way to cut my phone bill down to something I could afford to pay each
month without fainting every time I saw the bill.

The first thing I did was to go out and plunk $195 for a 14.4KB modem.
That helped, but C-News is very slow on my laptop, and batching articles
is even slower, and email (of course) isn't batched at all.  Even with
MNP5 compression turned on, this doesn't make for a very efficient setup,
even at high speeds.

Playing around with uucp told me that the line turnaround wasn't that much
overhead, nor was sending the C./X. files (the execute files) - the real
overhead was sending out uncompressed news and especially email, since
I subscribe to several mailing lists and digests can run quite large.

I looked at uubatch, but the most current version I could find (1.05) was
not compatible with Taylor uucp (and I had no other alternative), so I
decided to write my own.  Experiments with "gzip -9" convinced me that
that was the way to go, since gzip gives email and news 60 to 75 percent
compression, which would tend to cut one's phone bill significantly.

You hold in your mailbox (or news reader) the end result of that effort.
Bear in mind that (1) this is a "first cut" and while it is unlikely that
there are very many bugs, there are certainly places where the programs could
be improved and tuned.  Suggestions and comments are welcome!

To install:

	1.	Feed this to shar.

	2.	Look at the Makefile.  Make sure that the paths for
		things are set up correctly.

	3.	Look at uucomp.h and make sure that the path and
		options for COMPRESS/UNCOMPRESS are set up properly.

	4.	Type "make".  This will make uucomp, crmail, and crnews
		and will place them in /usr/bin.  Move Compress into
		/usr/lib/uucp or /usr/local/bin.

	5.	Change UUADDR in the Compress script to your personal
		email address.

	6.	Make an entry in crontab to do
			/usr/lib/uucp/Compress site1 site2 site3...
		occasionally.  It is suggested that this be done fairly
		frequently.  Alternately, you could set up a login shell
		for selected sites to run uucomp every time that site
		logged in.

	7.	Email is sent at call grade 'A' for non-personal email,
		and at call grade '9' for personal email (set via UUADDR
		in step 5 above).  If you want to take advantage of this,
		change /etc/uucp/sys and add "timegrade A Any"  for delivery
		of all email, or "timegrade 9 Any" for just your personal
		email.  This can come in handy if you're just interested
		in receiving personal email over a slow link, but will
		retrieve all other email at other times.

		Please note that this doesn't affect sent mail - if you
		send email at the default call grade of 'A' and set UUADDR
		to a personal address, then set "timegrade 9 Any",
		your outbound email won't be sent until you reset the timegrade
		back to 'A'.  If you want to send email if you've set timegrade
		to '9', set UUADDR to "." or "@".  This will have the effect
		of doing what most people expect - send all outbound email
		on connection, but only receive personal email.

		This can get a little complicated to understand!  Let's try
		an example: you have a master system that receives all your
		email, called "aragorn".  You have a laptop called "arwen".
		Aragorn collects all your email, then forwards it to Arwen
		via uucp.  You are out of town, and you want to minimize
		your connection time.  You would set up Aragorn and Arwen as
		follows:

		1. Set UUADDR in /usr/local/bin/Compress on Aragorn to your
		personal email address.  This will queue your personal email
		for Arwen at callgrade '9', and all other email at callgrade
		'A'.

		2.  Set UUADDR in /usr/local/bin/Compress on Arwen to be
		either "." or "@".  This will match all outbound email
		addresses, and cause all outbound email to be sent to
		Aragorn at callgrade '9'.

		3.  Set the "timegrade" line in /etc/uucp/sys on Arwen to
		read "timegrade 9 Any".  This will cause Arwen to only
		download email queued at callgrade '9'.

		4.  When you get back from your trip, reset the "timegrade"
		on Arwen to read "timegrade A any".  This will cause Arwen
		to download all queued email on the next connection.

		5.  Don't forget to add /usr/bin/crmail and /usr/bin/crnews
		to the list of programs allowed to be executed in your
		Permissions file (if running HDB UUCP), or whatever is
		appropriate for your version of uucp.

Enjoy!  Any questions or comments can be sent to erc@pobox.com.

Note:  This is tuned for Taylor uucp, but would not be particularly
difficult to adapt to other version of uucp.  See the file INTERNALS for
details of how this works.

July 15, 1993
Ed Carp
erc@apple.com
Fremont, CA

April 3, 2003
Ed Carp
erc@pobox.com
Pensacola, FL
